LAIDOUT Version 0.04.1
--------------------
http://laidout.org

Please post any complaints and other correspondence to the Laidout
general mailing list found at:
https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/laidout-general

Currently the only developer (and creator of Laidout) is also a client:
Tom Lechner <tomlechner@users.sourceforge.net>
http://www.tomlechner.com


WHAT IT CAN DO RIGHT NOW
------------------------
Laidout is currently in the 'Kind of a hack, but mostly works
on my machine' stage of development.

Laidout currently can handle images and gradients (linear, radial, 
and bezier patches) fairly well. Also, you can make a type of image
that can be stretched around. The very basics to get my cartoon 
books done, in other words. Many more features are planned, like 
such non-essentials (to me anyway) as text! Who needs text when a
picture is worth a thousand words? 

Many of the features are only partially implemented, and the
real meat of the program is only half in place right now.
Be advised that you can construct paths on screen, but path 
printing (to the printer) is badly implemented currently.

Laidout and the Laxkit (http://laxkit.sourceforge.net) each share
some of the burden of the 'meat' of the program, but anyway...


COMPILING
---------

Ensure that you have the Laxkit (http://laxkit.sourceforge.net)
available. For the Laidout development version, you will need the
Laxkit development version from the same date. Laidout expects 
Imlib2 support to have been compiled into the Laxkit (which is the 
default). Make sure that Laxkit headers are in the place specified 
by the LAXDIR variable in the file Makefile-toinclude, then type:

make
make install

There is no 'configure' at the moment. 'make install' will put
laidout-(whatever version) in (usually) /usr/local/bin, and make a
symbolic link /usr/local/bin/laidout point to it.

DISTRO WARNING: the Makefiles here are for the development source, which
also tries to do 'make' of the Laxkit, since Laxkit and Laidout are 
so intertwined. Just remove those parts of the Makefiles
if you want to compile only Laidout.

After successfully making, the program 'laidout' in the src
directory is the thing you want. It does not depend on any other
files currently, thus it can be run from wherever it is located.

Running the program might spit out copious amounts of debugging
info. If this is the case, you can turn this off with 'make hidegarbage'
before doing 'make' (the same goes for the Laxkit). Or, you can just 
run the program like this:

./laidout > /dev/null


SOURCE DOCUMENTATION and CONTRIBUTING
-------------------------------------

There is a lot of source documentation available via doxygen, just type:

make docs

and it dumps it all out to docs/html. In particular, you will have a 
rapidly expanding todo list. If you want to contribute, that is a good
place to start. That and the Laxkit todo list.

