LAIDOUT ROADMAP
---------------
Things to do before the next release.
This is a very rough draft of a roadmap, and is by no means the final word.



VERSION 0.08
------------
       Finish implementing project based setup, especially when loading and saving
       Soup up the color box so one can recall previous colors
       Fix multi-object selection move when crossing page boundaries
       In image properties dialog, have the popup list of potential previews
       Gui for modifying Page Labels
       double click on group should change selection area to group contents?
       Image and Color patches, gradients, etc should allow transparent colors
       Standardize the import/output mechanism
       PDF out
       Print all/current paper/paper range, by singles, page layout, or paper layout to ps, eps, pdf
       Export to various things or print from command line: batch processing
       Export as a Scribus document
       Print/export to images
       Selected region out to image(s), regions optionally remembered
       plain text edit window for notes/scripts/whatever save with project or doc or its own file
       Tools should remember their settings, dialogs should remember their placements
       NetImposition needs import/export net including OFF files, and build net interface
       libintl support, means finally adapting laxkit and laidout to utf8 internally, no small task!
       Net imposition interactive unwrapper and paper tiler
       Find and fix the damn memory hole (at least it currently slowly eats memory rather than crashing)
         (i'm pretty sure it is somewhere in imposition classes, something to do with PageStyles)
       from laxkit: clear up focus handling which currently REALLY SUCKS especially when dialogs are up
       from laxkit: related to focus handling: clean up pop up menus which currently REALLY SUCK


VERSION 0.1 
-----------
       Of course, need copious testing by people who are not me.
       Basic infrastructure for most things (except text) should be in place.
       Must be Stable, not merely "Stable"
       should probably put laidout stuff in its own namespace, just to be polite for plugin makers
       Improve open from template to be able to use names (defined in a file), not just filenames
       perhaps have image open window pane for main split window? drag and drop in images? that would be AWESOME
       PathInterface must be drastically improved, and bez part should have segment move like inkscape
       Units, especially Allow changing units in rulers: metric/standard, also physical/object
       Change cursor or otherwise indicate what will happen as mouse moves around
       Should have option to print/see or not print/see big, preview, or no images, per image
       When adjusting things with the object tool, must have option to be temporarily a little tranparent
       group combine properties, like most importantly transparency
       for plain postscript, there's bitmask, but no transparency. maybe optionally do simulation with dithered bitmask
       Make the button box actually function
       Configurable icon panel/menu system
       Linear (including curvilinear) guides
       DumpImages within Arrangements, which are sort of a template of positions (2-d guides)
       Parent masking of children
       Fix non-centerfold page bleeding in booklets/doublesidedsingles when printing
       for laxkit: SplitWindow: tabbed panes
       Seriously optimize the whole ColorPatch/ImagePatchData stuff
       Have imagepatch be a transform you can apply to any image
       Allow objects to have any number of various kinds of transforms applied to it
       Fully configurable shortcuts, with optional multi-key shortcuts
       undo/redo
       Some sort of basic scripting infrastructure allowing easy addition of other scripting language plugins,
       allow for easy method for runaround area determination
       Full color management implemented, with up to at least 16 bit per channel color
       a real PrintDialog that can configure itself based on ppds
       Generic style edit window
       Make commands actually available in the command prompt window
       non-hacky new document box that can understand ppds
       all things must define their styledefs
       Plugin infrastructure should be in place
       Low level tree editor, akin to the xml editor in inkscape
       make it easy to add/remove/prioritize/replace import/export filters
       PDF in?
       svg in/out
       start thinking about the transplanting of the SpreadEditor to Inkscape, in expectation
          of multipage-ness with SVG 1.2, or possibly to scribus also as plugin(?)
       SpreadEditor: be able to eject a page into limbo, in addition to swap and slide
       SpreadEditor: optionally work with whole spreads, rather than just single pages
       Provide some kind of visual feedback while doing lengthy operations
       Finish implementing booklet/double sided vertical, and BasicBookImposition
       Improve and/or make new logo and splash image, and generate icons from a laidout doc
       have an image in the little pan popups
       Combine the ViewWindow and SpreadEditor to optionally allow the sort of 'infinite scroll'
       Be able to interact with patches in a way reminiscent of Inkscape's node sculpting
       Be able to have paper objects in addition to the normal page objects (ie master page numbers)
       Use the freedesktop recommended ~/.recently-used (on laxkit's todo also)
       Non-polygonal pages, to allow nets for shapes resulting from intersecting cylinders, for instance
       Optional Midi controller usage
       Able to select and transform nodes from different objects at the same time


VERSION 0.2
-----------
Do a poor man's version of a multi-contact touch screen interface with 2 mice plugged in and
  one of them not set to send core events. Or normal mouse and tablet or ... ?
Bezier color patch freeform, rather than just grid.
The other Postscript LL3 gradients: Triangle strip and Triangle Mesh
Possibly allow pure function gradients, and redefining the functions for the other gradients..
import/export as possible: passepartout (out is partially done)?,scribus?,svg,tiff,png,etc
Freehand drawing with tablet support
Somehow be able to do foldouts from within any page of an imposition
fancy arranging to align along any path, and use any path as a kind of tab stop
Text for god's sake!! This means at least a basic line breaker,
layout inside anything that provides an 'area' and runaround facility.
Also most likely means finally deciding on a real rendering backend: cairo? antigrain? freetype/pango?
ImageMagick plugin or integration: benefits: a gazillion file formats, including EPS, and color profiles
Would be nice to have tex/latex text and equation reader
Would be nice to be able to handle metapost sort of things
Would be nice to be able to handle lilypond sort of things
Load/save various gimp/inkscape/etc things like gradients, palettes, and paths, perhaps extract from/to xcf
Maybe have ability to break apart and use parts of gimp.xcf/inkscape.svg/scribus.sla, and put them back in?
Story editor
Internal generic impositioner for ps files that follow the ps doc. structure guidelines
Cooperate with photo programs like KPhotoalbum
Make nets cooperate with Hugin/Enblend
Vx (aka uberconvertor) support?
Verse support?
Net/polyhedron layout 3-d previewer extra (maybe?? software BSP tree? opengl?) pdf 1.6 can embed rotatable 3-d
Perhaps have animation support/mode, 1 page=1 frame or separate time slider and keyframes
a FlexibleImposition for html/streamed output target?
JDF support?


VERSION 1.0
-----------
End world hunger
Stabilize the biosphere
Impeach Bush
Neutralize all nuclear waste
Evaporate my student loans
While i'm at it, I'd like a pony.



            .--------------. 
------------- OLD RELEASES -----------------
            `--------------' 

VERSION 0.07  --  released 2 June 2007!
------------
(done) Have command line option to output to a file a pseudocode mockup of the file format
(done) EPS out booklet landscape is broken, fix it!
(done) Implement all preview config options, namely auto preview files over a certain size
(done) Be able to search for existing previews in ~/.thumbnails/large and normal
(done) Document selector button up in corner should work
(done) Clean up image import dialog
(done) Fix icons/makeimages.py!! "from xml.sax import saxexts" somehow stopped working
(done) Eye dropper-ish color grabber, ideally grab any color anywhere on the screen
(done, sort of) Make the select by dragging out a rectangle work
(done) limbo objects should save with the document, instead of just disappearing!!!
(done) Linear and radial Gradients should have vastly better interfaces
(done) Image and Color patches should have vastly better interfaces
(done, but only because I can't reproduce it any more for some mysterious reason) from laxkit: 
           fix tooltips: seems laxkit accidentally allows multiple tooltips on rare occasions


VERSION 0.06  -- released 25 April 2007!
------------
(done) parent/child nesting and interface for that: nesting, and grouping: layer trees
(done) New document creation from templates
(done) Be able to work with preview images more easily
(done) Basic EPS import, would open up all kinds of down and dirty tricks using other programs:latex,lilypond,...


VERSION 0.05  -- released 4 November 2006!
------------
(done) Build a features.html for the webpage
(done) Be able to work with preview images, rather than hundreds of 15M tiffs
(done) Show adjacent pages in Net Singles view (prelude to being able to unwrap shapes any way they can)
(done) Use a ~/.laidout/0.05/laidoutrc
(done) SpreadEditor: re-fix auto arranging
(done) ObjectInterface for selecting and resizing multiple stuff
(done) Import images from a list file
(done) Make ImageInterface scaling suck less, and distinguish between no image and broken image
(done) autoconfiscate or cmake or (this one)have simple "configure" thingy
(done) Should be able to 'Open Document' without restarting Laidout!!
(done) Improve internal icon management


VERSION 0.04  -- released 4 September 2006!
------------
(done) Palette Window
(done) RSS feed for website
(done) A style manager, which is Not dependent on laxkit::refcounter, which is being removed
(done) from laxkit: SplitWindow: swap window positions
(done) Simple multiple image import by selecting one or more from a directory
(done) Allow for window docking, floating, swapping panes, and temporary pane maximize
(done) Page Ranges controlling page number labels
(done) Make workspace bounds and popup panner save with the document
(done) Fix page/spread flip by number


VERSION 0.03  -- released 13 May 2006!
-----------
(done,but needs serious optimizing) Bezier patch with image for the color (this would be HOT for the gimp! a side project..)
(done) if an image is selected, should be able to import an image to it
(done) printing: produce masked images based on 50% threshhold of alpha channel of images
(done) When loading files from the command line, should understand: 'file:///path/to/it'
(done) Whoops! Change reference from LGPL to GPL in source code!! Crap!!
(done) Load and save window configurations
(done) EPS out to file###.eps by page not paper
(done) Be able to print a paper range
(done) an About window
(done) command prompt window
(done) Get rid of vertical white stripe toward bottom of the laidout webpage
(done) SpreadEditor: drag to viewer to work on that page or spread
(done) SpreadEditor: fix auto arranging
(done) Make doc tree changes sanely update the various windows
(done) Be able to DEselect all objects!!


VERSION 0.02 - released 8 April 2006!
------------
(done) Rename Disposition to Imposition. Why oh why did I call it Disposition??
(done) Insert some way to turn off debug info dumped to cout (done in a convoluted way, perhaps)
(done) Linear Gradients edit, save, and printout
(done) Circle Gradients edit, save, and printout
(done) Color patches should work better than in 0.01
(done) Overall windowing setup using Laxkit::SplitWindows, 
(done) from laxkit: replacement of 'datastack' should be complete, do same here
(done) Popup tool selector
(done) ObjectInterface for resizing and shearing
(done) Make Save/Save As dialog box suck less: 'test/1.doc' should mean cd test, save '1.doc'
(done) Make it easy to make deb packages from source
(done) extremely basic print dialog: print to file (ask on overwrite) or send via shell command
(done) make the directory spot in viewer keep updated current directory
(done) debug SpreadEditor thumbnail updating, and clip thumb to page
(done) A help button to popup a list of all the otherwise unmentioned key shortcuts
(done) Debug 'Delete Page'
(done) Button for pageclips
(done) Implement SpreadEditor Reset button


VERSION 0.01 -- released 12 March 2006!
------------
(done) Clean up web page a bit.
(done) TILING MUST WORK!!!!!!! for booklets also 
(done) Get NetDisposition sort of going
(done) Implement page clipping for display AND for printing..
(done) Images should work well
(done) Color patches should work enough to be getting on with
(done) in the laxkit: menuselector,
(done) tooltips IMPORTANT!!,
(done) and set said tooltips for the mystery numbers in ViewWindow 
(done) Add copyright notice to source files
(done) Add and Delete Page buttons
(done) Throw together a quick key-stroke cheat sheet

