For historical purposes, here's all the low level goings on in Laidout development since 0.095.




------------------------------ 0.098, ?? ---------------------------------------------

------------------------------ 0.097, 25 November 2018 ---------------------------------------------

DONE space to duplicate not working (on images)
DONE thumbnail images not showing in the spread editor view
DONE won't let me open for new preview image in imageinfo dialog, click ok, window comes back up
DONE inkscape bug!! zoom out, NextSpread/PreviousSpread icons stroke on side disappears, somehow handle related, adding more handles fixes
DONE wrong git rep on website
DONE option to change default exported file name
DONE make saveas file edit color code right: red for can't save, yellow for overwrite
DONE tooltips and event timers seem to be frelled
DONE for objectindicator, more than one input window allowed.. should block, and turn off when mouse out click
DONE crash on ungroup
DONE update touch_recent for Laidout files in the newer xbel type
DONE shell broken sometimes.. bad font??
DONE Singles not loading what was saved
DONE paper spread view, shadow is offset wrong
DONE bg for spread flipper not the same as the other buttons after popping up spread editor.. wtf???
DONE button or key down doesn't cancel tooltip once it is up
DONE (apparently) Printing only goes to letter, even though page size says go full page, in image(done), pdf(done) and ps(done) out!!! *(#@*&#*(&*&$(
DONE print command to printer is not respecting the paper size
DONE (but still must imp cache clearing on low memory) cairo doesn't cache images like Imlib does,
	    so every image is totally loaded on file open. bad, bad, bad!!!
DONE moving several limbo objects back to page does NOT actually move them all onto the page!! grrr!
  move them on then off -> fail, move off then on -> fail.. problem with group bounding??
  --> changing one context messed up the other contexts, each context in selection must be updated on move
DONE be able to change units preference via a window control rather than just editing laidoutrc by hand
DONE objectinterface/groupinterface deleteobject goes out of sync when telling viewport to delete: oi.cc:830
       -> loop over selected fails when object order changes.. need to update contexts of other objs in contexts
DONE group/ungroup needs to update viewport selection to current selection object
DONE group/ungroup calling TreeObjectReorder, and clearing any selection, needs to stay selected after
DONE ungroup is not applying transform appropriately
DONE grouping frelled.. can group, but cannot seem to select existing groups to ungroup
DONE group/ungroup broken
DONE objects disappear on group <- due to SOMEDATA_LOCK_CONTENTS blocking it out.. it shouldn't though
DONE importing images should default the image id to a variant of the file name
DONE cloning, jump to object in offscreen page, switches pages, but bounding box wrong place
DONE clone a child.. NOT PUTTING CORRECTLY!!!! totally wrong matrix, dropping into wrong context
DONE clone via space bar not moving object after space.. moves bounding box, but actual objects stays put
DONE reparent not installing correct transform
DONE jump to parent seems to be broken and causes crashes
DONE (? can't duplicate) object layer positioning for Home and End keys projecting out in wrong way
DONE (? can't duplicate) hang after reparent object
DONE (can't duplicate) test-tiled-mark.laidout: delete the bars, add bars back then try to export, program stops (not a segfault)!!!! headwindow gets decremented somehow
DONE cut marks are too thick.. cairo problem??  grey bars export to pdf ok, but don't display correctly, outline is too thick
DONE recent files do not appear to be most recent file opened
DONE memory hole: add gray bars and quit. 85 objects remain!?!
DONE gray bars does not have accurate bounding box initially
DONE add gray bars, displays wrong width, but save and load, width is proper. wtf?
DONE papergroup objects are drawing beneath the white of the pages
DONE bug: add gray marks, then '.' for next object, endless loop!
DONE bug: add gray bars, move to a page, ^g crashes!
DONE paper display shows shadow in wrong direction
DONE (can't duplicate anymore) file open, click around recent, etc, crashes!!
DONE filedialog: lost ability to define new bookmarks.. bad!!
DONE filedialog: control click no longer toggles
DONE should have a "touch" startup, to run laidout with a new named file, like you might do with "vim something_new.txt"
		-->already there! -n 'saveas file.laidout, landscape, ...'
DONE transfer group behavior to GroupData. would greatly simplify some things
DONE ungroup should have ungrouped objects selected after ungrouping
DONE need infrastructure to propagate and save tool settings (..now needs implementing per tool)
DONE add menu items to rulercornermenu for reseting view orientation <-- use lower light corner menu under scrollers instead
DONE CharacterInterface: outclick needs to destroy without sending
DONE when you try to open anything in ~/.laidout/*/templates, then it should open as a template
DONE everything loads as a template now???!!?!??!!
DONE SimpleColorAttribute() should allow css3 stuff, like rgb(50%, 25%, .5), and hsl(), where h->[0..360)
DONE should be able to handle any css color attribute, whether "#fff' "#ffffff"(done) or rgb(...)(done), hsl(...)(done), hsla()(done)
DONE SimpleColorAttribute() should have double rgbaf available
DONE SimpleColorAttribute() should return an end_ptr
DONE caption data up, objectindicator up, the OI not scanning mouse position correctly
DONE file button:
   DONE Save
   DONE Save As...
   DONE Save a copy...
   DONE Save a copy incremented
   DONE Save as template... <- need to enter template name and file?
   DONE Save as default template
   ---
   DONE New...
   DONE Open...
   ---
   DONE Backup settings...
DONE autosave
  DONE need a gui
  DONE every X minutes
DONE voronoi Voronoi delauney Delauney:
  DONE Equivalent object to PathsData, or GroupData with delauney, voronoi, points, numbers
  DONE implement data tree insertion
  DONE implement proper file name for import/export
DONE tooltips:
  DONE mouse over to get rid of one tooltip, remain in window, it just pops up again shortly after. need check against last tooltip to prevent
  DONE change desktop, tooltip remains
DONE ObjectIndicator: render text with white halo
DONE GroupInterface: Not catching mode==1 correctly.. can't zoom with just space anymore
DONE need to spiffify tabframe.. it is hideous
DONE need better render for tab frame headers
DONE add blank image, change description, do not change filename, makes width/height zap back to 0...
DONE should probably flock in UpdatePreference(), even though it's just reading, another thread may mess with it
DONE implement LineStyle::dump_out_atts
DONE implement FillStyle::dump_out_atts
DONE FillStyle: implement i/o of all the available blend modes
DONE some side handles on object tool scanning as different handles
DONE clone tiler:
  DONE needs a tiling description dump_out
  DONE big memory hole, maybe only after render?
  DONE debug recursive, need controls to say how much to recurse
  DONE dragging source image should optionally autoselect the base cell nearest mouse
  DONE? render is slightly offset from base cells occasionally (??? can't dup)
  DONE control box should either shrink oversized text or put bigger box
  DONE need to be able to individual base objects
  DONE transform the base cell complex should transform base objects along with it
  DONE click on base cell, update viewport color box
  DONE should have some indication which base cells source objects belong to, maybe outline with color?
  DONE base cells click needs to check for in bounds of grey clones
  DONE must be able to explicity say which control layer to act on: boundary, base cells, source objects, in case of bad overlap
  DONE need to be able to use full object handles when moving source objects... the size handles are disabled
  DONE line thickness of default render is way too thick, should be a small proportion of bounding box
  DONE bug: can't scale base objects
  DONE bug: spiral and rotation tilings not working again
  DONE? debug groupify
  DONE memory hole back <- this time in RectInterface!!
  DONE need better context for non identity page transform for EditThis
  DONE make groupify default
  DONE on export the base tile line width is wrong, since inkscape doesn't handle screen width (now default to .01 of user unit)
  DONE need to be able to remember tiling for future editing
  DONE need to be able to delete base objects all at once
  DONE should use preview->basecells, rather than generate fresh with Render, so if user edits base cells it behaves as expected
  DONE hovering outside select box should not highlight a tiling
DONE color sliders input hex, it's flipping r and b
DONE Lightness slider appears black to white, but the middle is full color, needs segmented render like hue
DONE click enter area of color pickers, does not install color!!!!
DONE rectinterface with extra m not propagating transform correctly: move(done) rotate handles
DONE rectinterface should reset down point on control press
DONE captioninterface
  DONE update svg and scribus exporters to using linespacing and glyphs
  DONE? cant duplicate anymore bug: convert to path with viewport->ChangeObject(), puts obj way off, doesn't show path decs, other weird
  DONE Paste not triggering recache
  DONE fonts need to dump in(via fontmanager->dump_in_font) and out(done) by themselves
  DONE need to implement dump_out_atts
  DONE memory hole after convert to path
  DONE FindPos needs to account for glyph/cluster coverage
  DONE (seems to be gone with switch to harfbuzz) change centering not smooth, text placement hops, font to bitmap render size snafus?
  DONE key move for caret not working for ffi
  DONE deleting leaving excess glyphs???
  DONE needs line spacing slider
  DONE baseline justify
    DONE needs hint to preserve baseline align when changing font size or line spacing
DONE page range tool in spread view not showing text
DONE bug: select path tool. one point. escape. delete. boom!
DONE saved file, not showing up in recent
DONE remove imlib dependency from ImagePatch
DONE (not sure why, switched to use explicit gradients) ColorSliders not really showing black unless you set from hex, but solid black is still sending properly
DONE file live search selects wrong one.. using absolute index instead of file
DONE filedialog click on directory icon, crash!
DONE bug: press 4, wtf?? should zoom to current object
DONE Can't actually select Recent
DONE Can't import images to limbo
DONE searchable menus
DONE switch to GPL v3? would broaden gegl usage, some of which requires gpl3
DONE laxkit/examples/laxhello.cc: messagebar, resize window, dragging around smears. laxhello: Also can't double buffer
DONE ps:
  DONE test ps out image patch does correct vert flippedness
  DONE image out seems to have stopped working?? <-because it depended on images being LaxImlibImage
  DONE must make sure it doesn't depend on Imlib
DONE image
  DONE should really make this graphicsmagick or cairo based, not gs+pdf based
  DONE should color background per paper if !transparent
DONE laidout import:
  DONE inserts unneccesary layers
  DONE (can't duplicate?) does not appear to scale correctly, does odd scaling
DONE filedialog: something wrong with bookmarks.. pressed add, and they all went away
DONE switch to net imposition, net render lines too big
DONE asymmetric cuts are not right for front sheets on spread generation (done), also on sig editor
DONE bug: export to range has bad initial upper value ?? can't reproduce, starts with -1, which is fine
DONE select filter editor tool through menu does not use current object
DONE can still click down on other objects while perspective for filter edit
DONE space duplicate object with filter, keeps duping until crash
DONE unparent from a group should remove the group if nothing left? no, empties have uses
DONE group: double click to enter group area
DONE group: ungroup doesn't check if FieldPlace indices change, making ungroup and group unreliable
DONE fontdialog:
  DONE sample block should not strictly adhere to fontsize, as it can get very big (or too small)
  DONE you can still scroll off when few visible items.. grrr!!
  DONE should really get around to implementing scrollers
  DONE fontmatrix import? fontmatrix uses a sqlite database.. should be straighforward to scan it
DONE plaintext editor: need control-'.' or something to jump to last mod point
DONE sig editor: stacks should display below squared bounding box of pages?  -> have text rotate with it, more clearly shows where "bottom" is
DONE recently-used.xbel showing multiple: <bookmark:group>Laidout</bookmark:group>
DONE no recent in open!!
DONE? crash on rearrange sometimes: page range getting out of sync
DONE should not register autosaves as recent
DONE filedialog:
  DONE need add and remove bookmarks
  DONE sort by details
  DONE sort by size should sort by actual size, must interpret "5 gb" vs "3242 b"
  DONE columns need to autosize
  DONE add scroller to treeselector
DONE color slider popup: should pop near the mouse
DONE need to update ColorSliders to use dp gradients
DONE engraver tool:
  DONE bug: change type not tracing, same for selecting new trace object
  DONE For trace, click on "..." when no trace object should bring up trace object menu
  DONE (can't duplicate) bug: object rotate works fine. but then enter and leave engraver tool. Now object rotate is messed up
  DONE bug: make a LineEdit overlay for number input, then Next bdown is ignored!! l, m, or right all ignored: viewportwindow line 947
  DONE bug: several update triggers failing --> due to recent switch to cached image
  DONE bug: show_points broken
  DONE bug: add group, messes up the with: and not shared lines
  DONE bug: Remane a resource, not updating name in resource list
DONE in shortcut list, backspace won't let me delete chars from search
DONE svg filter:
  DONE debug initial scaling/viewBox issues
  DONE out for meshes
  DONE should NOT default to powerstroke.. the cache for complex stuff REALLY bogs down, creating NaN draws
  DONE need clone ref check when finished reading file
  DONE text in fail: in hangs..
  DONE testsvg-disappearing.svg.. many objects disappear after read in at different zoom levels. wtaf??
  DONE on out, need option to have 90/inch or the new 96/inch
  DONE bug: only sometimes, exports at skew angle
  DONE need in for style on paths
DONE scribus:
  DONE encode < > ' " & \ as entities
  DONE caption -> path, then out, all paths are normal EXCEPT text paths, which are upside down
  DONE paths outputting upside down
  DONE out using FinalObject: DONE pdf     DONE scribus DONE image DONE svg 
  DONE for export, need way to have easy crop, especially from command line
  DONE remember last export type
  DONE when saving, name shouldn't be red if ok to save
DONE out textaspaths: textonpath: pdf, scribus, svg,  caption: pdf, scribus(sort of), svg
DONE node editor NodeInterface nodes:
  DONE center on selected doesn't actually
  DONE finish perspective transform node proof of concept
  DONE finish file format description
  DONE gegl:
    DONE gegl:*-save except gegl:save is disregarding autosave on blitting -> just disabling preview for these
	DONE preview area should be adjustible for sample area, instead of always default 100x100
	DONE babl format is passed in gegl as an otherwise undefined gpointer, need to have special check for this
	DONE save gegl graph to xml
	DONE enums
	DONE menu with categories, not just the name. gegl ops have name, title, description, categories, license, even source!!
	DONE load in graph xml
    DONE process on a crop after change a value crash? need to trace
	DONE make process optional
  DONE update to use IsExecIn/Out
  DONE thread forking for branching nodes?
  DONE if branching
  DONE jump to link under mouse: shift click over slot, or shift click over bare bez
  DONE duplicate nodes (still need to imp group dup)
  DONE need visual indication that something is a group
  DONE concat s1, s2
  DONE string primitive
  DONE substr [index..index]
  DONE curve node
  DONE pipe splitter node (forknode)
  DONE math operate on numbers, vectors as appropriate
  DONE math 1 arg: norm, norm squared, etc
  DONE vector node:
    DONE 2,3,4 dimension vectors
    DONE separate xyz
	DONE combine xyz
	DONE math: perpendicular, parallel, etc
  DONE bug: sometimes crash when tabbing across property values
  DONE need accumulation mechanism to bundle up results of loops: AddVariable(name, type|set of type), GetVariable(name).out
  DONE if you right click on a node not in selection, make that the selection instead
  DONE cut links
  DONE nodes need preview images as necessary: need to preview non-sinks
  DONE view mode: all collapsed,  all collapsed except preview,  expanded no preview,  expanded with preview
  DONE need a little triple bar triangle in lower right corner to resize preview size. change preview size on all selected
  DONE loading should check automatically for different files if load fails
  DONE rename nodes
  DONE need search
  DONE numbers need slide change: specify add or zoom stepping
  DONE node resize needs mouseover for edges
  DONE select all/deselect with 'a'
  DONE save, load nodes dialogs
  DONE newly added should be selected
  DONE hover tips for props on collapsed nodes
  DONE clear up IsInput()/IsOutput()
  DONE dedicated random node: seed, is_int, min,max
DONE pdf export clones
DONE text on path textonpath: TextOnPath
  DONE test exporters: svg scribus pdf
  DONE not remapping envelope on load in
  DONE during path edit shouldn't show the other controls like font scale
  DONE need to center balance on path
  DONE click off, creates new one, click back to old, has wrong path
  DONE paste
  DONE font size handles
  DONE need drag handles to change position on page when path is internal
  DONE if textonpath is child, not moving with parent
  DONE if textonpath has non-I m, edit path displays wrong
  DONE need cursor
  DONE bbox is drastically wrong
  DONE baseline handles
  DONE offset handles
  DONE envelope
  DONE deleting selected points when >=2 selected results in crash

DONE PathInterface: pathinterface
  DONE bug: now node scan and display works, but drag doesn't!!
  DONE toggle send color to fill/stroke should update the color box
  DONE debug remove points affect on weight nodes
  DONE bug: add point before beginning not spacing weight nodes properly
  DONE deleting points totally screws placement of weight nodes
    DONE if at endpoint, need to delete any out of bounds, but also insert a new one right at the tip
  DONE bug: drag point, press i or I while dragging, moves all points or crashes
  DONE bug: select all in subpath (shift A) does not appear to select from proper subpath all the time
  DONE bug: menuoption start new subpath does not start one!
  DONE implement dump_out_atts
  DONE bug: when path is a child, width nodes are not drawn correctly
  DONE bug: line cache on a square produces inf. lines off when final+initial coincide
  DONE select nodes with rectangle broken? <- no, just drawing really thin, misplaced LineWidthScreen




------------------------------ 0.096, 18 December 2015 ---------------------------------------------

DONE website: clarify how to get debs from the tarball
DONE website: revamp features page, maybe merge with screen shots 
DONE update fileformat.txt
DONE update docs to have new release number
DONE check laidout.1 when time to release
DONE update translation base files
DONE update screenshots, sync with features
DONE update links page, add boomaga?
DONE update dtpcompare.html
DONE update help 
DONE roman numeral capitals negative number has mystery box
DONE? (seems to work now) roman numeral menu select range editor not changing to roman!!
DONE make pdf default output format for sending to lp
DONE copy paste not working again
DONE transparency in paths does not work on screen (will fix with update to cairo)
DONE pop up a menu, close the originating window. The popup is still up!! "transientfor" problems?  
DONE image out pdf not working!!  
DONE viewport: needs menu box between scrollers to select various view/zoom/rotation/other settings 
DONE General Laxkit Interfaces needs:
  DONE DrawData for arbitrary rendering of any known objects to any Displayer object
  DONE stack of available interfaces -> interfacemanager.cc
  DONE iconmanager
DONE choose letter size while in spanish locale, makes it 8 x 11, not 8.5!! . vs , problem??  
DONE set inset in singles edit imposition, nothing changes!  
DONE cannot go up directory in file dialog when path input line is bad 
DONE ?(can't duplicate anymore) Edit imposition, choose booklet, not showing the pages!!! have to press space for it to show up 
DONE file-format dump says "Pattern has 2 elts" at very beginning... some kind of fontconfig or cairo errata?  
DONE page flipper text differs from page number indicator on start up 
DONE delete page doesn't update page flipper 
DONE paper tool has bad shadow offset, and too thick lines 
DONE text is interfering with the page number circle text out 
DONE (can't duplicate any more) 'N' to zap matrix in object tool jumps the object to random location 
DONE doing text extents on wrong font??? changing default displayer font to last multicolor!!!  
DONE clipping not working.. not the clip page, or spreadeditor clip 
DONE ContextMenu: mouse hover scan appears to ignore text pad
DONE ContextMenu: tablet mouse can't click down in?!?? -> because slight drag cancels... should allow tiny drags 
DONE prompt window is f'd up (done I guess? seems to be working ok now)
DONE Laxkit::MultiLineEdit needs some serious debugging 
DONE Do separate package for icons, to aid those who can't get inkscape to make the icons in both lax and laidout
DONE autosave:  need to decide on autosave location -> defaulting to ./%f.autosave 
DONE SpreadEditor:
  DONE in chooser, select second document, spreads are not updated
  DONE have two documents, f3 from second does not start window with the second selected
  DONE does not respond to viewport zoom menu stuff
  DONE not showing thumbnails!!
DONE Key shortcut html dump must convert chars to entities
DONE touchrecent needs to work 
DONE TreeSelector:
  DONE cursor movement jiggles view.. problem with makeinwindow??
  DONE spacing for column heads is NOT selecting for bounds
  DONE objecttree printing columns TWICE 
DONE captioninterface CaptionInterface
  DONE paste 
  DONE click to place caret
  DONE insert character interface
  DONE when hovering over other text objects, highlight their boxes
  DONE color fonts overlay fonts, semi-manually overlaid
  DONE start dialog not selecting current font
  DONE use last selected object's font settings for new objects
  DONE interface off or object change, remove blank objects
  DONE click no drag to input font size, angle
  DONE on read in for Laidout, the line spacing is wrong
  DONE size of non-active object all wrong in laidout
  DONE mods to change speed of size change
  DONE cursor up and down goes to wrong position
  DONE i/o color, set viewport color on selection
DONE clear out warnings due to make hidegarbage
DONE fix the zooming discontinuity!!
DONE reimpose test-numbers.laidout as dodecahedron.. CRASH!!  -> document.cc ReImpose crash on pagestyle->margin==NULL 
DONE FileDialog2:
  DONE bookmarks should auto wrap width
  DONE details: name  mod-date  size
  DONE if no recent, should show "(No recent)"
  DONE window vertical alignment problems.. click up, offsets wrong
  DONE do recent right, figure out current way other desktops do it
  DONE bookmarks, display as separated list, not tree
  DONE need way to draw grayed out icons
  DONE have little x to clear masks..
  DONE bookmarks, have recent there
DONE PathInterface:
  DONE default path width should be thicker, maybe a few pixels wide
  DONE bug: add seg for endpoint, then try to select a point: crash! -> improper curpoints.push()
DONE engraving tool: Engraving  engraver
  DONE multiobject:
    DONE resource settings need to be able to be shared across objects(done) and survive file io
	DONE need more thorough resource management to track resources/users
    DONE-ishsetting sharing is confusing, need much better interface for that
	DONE escape off curvemap, trouble with somedata in GroupInterface Refresh
    DONE should be able to change object name from within panel
	DONE (i think) click off an object, selection not flushing properly?
	DONE-ish collapse/show groups on per object basis? <- no, easier to just show all, wheel the panel up and down
	DONE right click to remove object from list? or just shift click again? <- just click off
	DONE distort tools need to act on all objects in selection
	DONE implement push to all
    DONE shared state needs to look if other objects have groups that can possibly be shared with
	DONE use from list not showing group names correctly
    DONE clicking on other object's group name should select it first, not do the rename thing
    DONE double click in viewport should activate tool with multiple objects.. only works with one right now
	DONE select tool from menu or with 't' should activate tool and transfer selection
	DONE object tool must act with viewport->selection
    DONE be able to autotrace to multiple engraved objects 
  DONE orient:
	DONE remember default width
    DONE should be able to enter numbers for orient by click no drag
    DONE instant global thickness adjust on orientation tool?
  DONE tracing:
    DONE need option to have it always show trace object
    DONE trace object should have its own dumping functions, since they might stand on their own as a resource
    DONE bug: memory hole after tracing
	DONE snapshot needs to align to correct area
    DONE opacity bubble extends in to panel area, clicking on it moves panel, not bubble
    DONE 2 objects, push to all for tracing, do new on one, then trace once does BOTH
    DONE trace object scaling and rotation should happen around mouse point
    DONE invert trace sampling: sample white instead of black, <- curvemapinterface: right click menu option
    DONE trace adjustment mode should prioritize moving the trace object, scan for it BEFORE scan for engrave object
    DONE trace function should be in EngraverPointGroup, not so much at interface level
    DONE trace once not working
    DONE trace object needs to be in page context, not object context (or must be default option)
  DONE curvemap needs predefined ramp profiles, remember last, load/save (per context?)
	DONE curvemapinterface: right click menu option works in trace, but not in brush ramp edit!!
  DONE direction:
    DONE line profile start point at 0 producing bubbles
    DONE button to remap lines, so not done automatically? shift press button to always remap
  DONE blockout doesn't work
  DONE (done) size of turbulent cell, and (done) per line turbulence
  DONE shortcut to unlink all, or toggle all linked, toggle all in group linked
  DONE space duplicate produces unnamed new groups as well as old group copies
  DONE need shortcuts for next/prev group
  DONE direction map is not showing actual direction
  DONE bug: seed values not letting me put in 0, goes to -1
  DONE point/line randomness in all fill types: linear, radial, circular, spiral
  DONE finish making value to weight map on canvas editable and work right
  DONE bug: 'f' objects appear to connect to points outside 0..1, but screen render doesn't -> line creation is allowing points with value > 1
  DONE CRASH: select engraver object, add page, crash!!!
  DONE bug: offset panel, the input lineedit is not starting at proper offset
  DONE need mouse sensitivity sliders
  DONE distort tools should be pressure sensitive
  DONE escape off brush ramp edit is exiting all tool, not just engraver tool
  DONE maybe expanding list of point groups, with ability to toggle linked and active in list
  DONE need duplicate group button for easy crosshatch <- Add button copies from current group
  DONE wheel over panel should move the panel, not the viewport
  DONE bug: one obj with 2 groups, one with 1 group, switch with . and ,, does not trigger resize panel
  DONE needs to be an indicator on red linked circle when current group is selected, as it acts as green then 
  DONE need preview generator for engraver objects, with cairo, it is painfully slow
DONE text:
  DONE multicolor (via overlaying) fonts
  DONE access combine character pairs
  DONE lineedit/multilineedit copy/pasting freezes cairo
DONE fix help window crash when closing window
DONE fontdialog: FontDialog
  DONE start up with correct font selected
  DONE needs to work on a duplicate font, not the original passed in
  DONE when sorting and there's just a couple, need to ensure that they all appear on screen
  DONE font to zero size screws up everything -> now has epsilon, won't let it go all the way to 0
  DONE sample block should resize according to text size
  DONE scan in Fontmatrix tags, search by tag
  DONE font Arrange not working
  DONE font list should be saveable across dialog instances -> store in fontmanager
  DONE should be able to set color(s) in "ok" event -> palette passed in font
  DONE style should be drop down
  DONE size has to be floating point.. means changing numslider to be double ready
  DONE scrolling: problem with Sync zapping start, sync calls SetBoxAspect which messes with start
  DONE resizeable sample box
  DONE sample block fg/bg
  DONE progressive search
DONE engraver trace not working anymore
DONE finish implement cairo backend
  DONE need preview render for engraver objects, takes forever for cairo render 
  DONE use cairo_debug_reset_static_data() at final close to release any remaining stuff in cairo memory??
  DONE gradient outline not working
  DONE zoom up and down, or rotate jumps way out sometimes.. does not seem to do that in SpreadEditor
  DONE wallpaper icons messed up
  DONE decide on image importers, cairo can only do 8 bit png
  DONE multiline text out doesn't seem to work: noticed in tooltip
  DONE copy/paste with utf8 freezes cairo
  DONE resize viewport freezes cairo
  DONE resize sig interface doesn't reposition boxes
DONE exporting:
  DONE rotate on export useful, especially pdf export: implement DocumentExportConfig paperrotation
  DONE rotate every other page 180
  DONE print in reverse order


-------------------------------- 0.095 23 April 2015 -------------------------------------------

DONE UPDATE DTPCOMPARE

DONE impose only MUST NOT IGNORE the current document page count
DONE scribus export ignoring landscape flag?!
DONE add --experimental option to activate any crash prone features not otherwise available
DONE HeadWindow -> changeto HelpWindow creates a HelpWindow, but removes paneable headwindow
DONE debian/rules seems to need dh_shlibdeps --dpkg-shlibdeps-params=--ignore-missing-info, due to some kind of libGL mixup
      -> workaround in place.. not sure best way to eliminate totally
DONE file format dump is not showing dump of object types
DONE something with page styles when fixbleeds on delete pages sometimes, crash on paths delete
DONE r/R for rotate objects not syncing matrix correctly
DONE object tool: key rotate should rotate around any active transform anchors
DONE scribus out: not exporting proper page size, legal booklet
DONE need page number overlay
DONE? why no icon in menus? <- not sure what it means anymore, there do seem to be icons in menus 
DONE i broke reimpose due to margin area shift
DONE Spread Editor memory hole
DONE make singles 16 pages, edit imposition, select booklet. Defaults to 4 pages!
DONE page range, control click on page 1 less than a range won't let you click for new range
DONE pressing enter in popup menus is not ending the menu
DONE finish laxifying fillrule 
DONE overwrite should return to file dialog if no
DONE export should have option to export in segments, like 4 pages at a time, but export all 
DONE exporting needs to support custom export config objects per filter, ie SvgExportConfig 
DONE out click destroy does not absorb button down 
DONE previewer should show text previews left justified 
DONE signature editor:
  DONE current sheet indicator not using correct text extent, seems grabbing extent from 1/117 instead of 117/117 
  DONE needs visual dodads to indicate where to drag to change,
DONE image import preview should say pixel size of image
DONE laxkit filepreviewer.cc should not depend on Imlib!  
DONE interface for custom paper size in: signature editor
DONE papergroup tool NEEDS 1:1 paper matrix reset, maybe say what paper dimensions
DONE papergroup tool, reset angle for selected boxes
DONE ColorSliders:
  DONE auto out click destroy
  DONE clicking color comparator should allow clicking back to one just used: swap old and new, not copy old to new
  DONE CMYK sliders FAIL
  DONE be able to choose output color format (not necessarily same as temp input format)
  DONE cur/old color should show boxes for transparent
  DONE enter color hex FAIL, zaps to #00000000
DONE path editor should not have width handle 
DONE set defaultpapersize in laidoutrc, but it is ignored?
DONE default template a4, but still inches in imposition??
DONE not putting check mark next to paper group
DONE scribus plugin fails because no write permission for temporary file
DONE f1/help button should allow access to both about window and shortcut window
DONE mesh/patch controls: 
  DONE perhaps a line warp, using line width adjustable path interface
  DONE debug! mesh path move weight node, and more than one v
  DONE mesh data needs to keep a cache of matrices per mesh square to speed up on the fly calculations
  DONE delete should not delete whole object
DONE export needs "batch" send, break into smaller segments 
DONE image load relative paths not working on loading a document
DONE image patch not activating image dialog popup
DONE filters:
  DONE need to test all exports from command line!!!  
  DONE import vector should default to current page import 
  DONE export window should default cursor position to end of file path
DONE image
  DONE (via switch to pdf based) path hole bad, no engraver fill, page size appears wrong
  DONE make trip to gs based on pdf, NOT on postscript
DONE pdf: engraver fill exports black and offset
DONE svg:
  DONE export needs implementation for options for mesh and powerstroke
  DONE export needs specialized export config
DONE move impose-only attributes to newdoc/export dialog or otherwise somehow give access to all imposition stuff
DONE space cloning/duping doesn't work 
DONE cloner: need mass select page for all tiling types
DONE curves: Base CurveWindow on CurveInterface instead. the interface will be getting the actual work
DONE curves: move CurveInfo to own file.
DONE need way to jump to any spread, not just next or prev
DONE spread editor:
  DONE when rearranging pages, need to shift page contents according to margin area
  DONE shortcut for select all with same markers+color
  DONE should be able to hide groups of pages, since render speed of hundreds of pages is slow
  DONE memory hole: ./laidout -n letter, do f3, quit. investigate Leaves obj imposition #721, doc is #750 -> spreadeditorviewport
  DONE slide and swap needs to act with whole range
  DONE control left button to toggle pages in and out of selection
  DONE shift left button to select ranges
  DONE integration of page label gui with spreadeditor, select pages, pop up the dialog?
  DONE need page number overlay 
  DONE insert blanks before or after
  DONE update page label type to be color+shape, shape being circle, square, diamond, or triangle
    DONE default colors: white, gray, dark gray, black, red, yellow
DONE calculator:
  DONE debug "return value"
  DONE debug foreach
  DONE debug "break;"
  DONE debug class definitions
  DONE implement GenericValue, to allow fully scripted values
  DONE need "print" function
  DONE show (variable) should show the objectdef for that variable
  DONE debug if,while
  DONE debug if {a=2, b=3} or {a:2, b:3} or {a:2; b:3}, then scan in hash instead of set
  DONE 1/0 crashes
  DONE assignment still off, need to be able to do a.x=3;
  DONE debug function definitions
  DONE skipBlock does not obey // and /**/ commenting
  DONE a=(1,2); a.x crashes
  DONE show Laidout.Affine should show all fields
  DONE debug name lookup, assignment, etc
  DONE debug things like "show Math.sin"  --> is looking in scope namespace, rather than entries
  DONE allow // or /*comments*/ ?
  DONE AddName seems to work unevenly
  DONE change toCChar() and CChar() to int makeStr(char *&buffer,int &len, int oktoreallocate);
DONE? key window not showing fields!!!  
DONE impositioneditor not remembering window position
DONE PathInterface:
  DONE line caps are slightly rounded, they should either be rounded, butt, or zero caps for now
  DONE finish implementing center and outline interpolation: first/last point mixup, not interpolating right, duping start+end
  DONE bug: have non identity object trasform makes nodes display wrong, but scan works
  DONE need command to reset offset
  DONE need convert to straight lines (no bez controls)
  DONE need convert to straight bezier lines
  DONE add(done), close(done), open path(done), cut(done) needs to adjust weight nodes
  DONE debug ConnectEndpoints
  DONE debug reverse path effect on weight nodes
  DONE displayer->drawFormattedPoints needs to work correctly with draw_thing_coordinates
  DONE straight (non bez) line segments fools join mechanism
  DONE creation of new weight node must grab approximate weight
  DONE create 3 vertex path with 2 weight nodes, delete 3rd point, click on rotate part of second weight node.. crash!
  DONE? (can't duplicate) delete single point -> crash!
  DONE discontinuity in outline at point boundaries?
  DONE displayer->drawFormattedPoints needs to be finalized
  DONE curvemap needs wraparound mode for approximating widths on curved lines
  DONE draggable width/offset/angle changer
DONE engraving tool: Engraving 
  DONE need export to pdf, image
  DONE select next/prev object is removing panel
  DONE change dash/trace/other settings should trigger a remap of all groups using those settings
  DONE offsetting the object screws up the path mouse overs and clicks
  DONE bug: panel draws on top, but you can still click on page marker interface below
  DONE mode switch must remove child interface
  DONE change color for not currently selected group should map to the one clicked
  DONE when flipping between objects, gives no indication that we are on a new object, like a thick outline
  DONE dash caps on really thin gaps create incorrect overlaps -> wrong fill mode
  DONE bug: engraver lines with 1 or 2 points FAIL BADLY load in problem?
  DONE dup leaving empty group
  DONE  i/o for dashes, traces
  DONE bug: object ref, change original object, the trace is not updated
  DONE bug: ref trace object loading not working.. must resolve on load in (done), identifier not showing
  DONE brush outline should go off when over panel
  DONE need to be able to load and save trace object and position
  DONE should have minimum dash density control, like zero==50% 
  DONE bug: it is possible to click on slider balls, but drag whole panel
  DONE 'f' should center objects in resulting svg -> viewBox behavior!
  DONE on canvas direction and spacing controller
  DONE trace object should still be visible when no actual data
  DONE when trace object management worked out, need to fully implement relevant bits in data->duplicate()
  DONE should have group link so that distortion tools affect all those selected
  DONE multiple burins for different point groups? (done vie group flipping)
  DONE pointgroup i/o
  DONE not exporting correct color
  DONE move group up or down
  DONE dup current group (part of new)
  DONE spacingmap in GrowLines needs to use as object point as input, not s,t
  DONE freehand should probably discard final 1/10 second of input which makes all lines terribly pointy on one end
  DONE toggle on trace box to show/not show trace object (should be transparency slider)
  DONE should be able to increase point sample resolution
  DONE value image to trace to lines
  DONE trying to draw paths over other objects is next to impossible. -> needed to set primary==1
  DONE edit brush ramp
  DONE twirl
  DONE turbulence mode
  DONE duplicate does not duplicate the line


